# Scala Training Courses

We offer three training courses in Scala 3 for beginners to advanced
programmers. All our courses can be delivered to small or large groups, either
onsite or remotely online and to almost any timetable.

Our courses have been developed over several years, as Scala 3 has evolved, but
build upon nearly two decades of experience at the forefront of Scala
development and teaching.

## Public Trainings

- Amsterdam
- Berlin
- Brussels
- London
- Lyon
- Madrid
- Manchester
- Munich
- Paris
- Warsaw
- Zurich

Online, March 2023: Two weeks, evenings

## Corporate Trainings




## Pedagogy

We design every course with an appreciation of the nature of learning: the
challenges beginners are likely to face and the misconceptions which need to be
dispelled. And we also learn from participants' feedback every time we give the
course, and incorporate that the next time we run it.

An intense training course, whether packed into two days, or spread over a
week, will always present new information artificially fast, so it's impossible
to consume everything at once. Some concepts can be grasped quickly, but others
need time, patience, practice and repetition, and obtaining these skills isn't
achievable in the time available, so we focus on teaching full awareness of the
concept and the methods for ongoing self-study.

The real world contains a mixture of easy and hard problems to solve. The
interactive examples we choose are naturally challenging, and incorporate other
new concepts from earlier in the course where possible. Only by stretching
ourselves to solve complex problem can the simple cases become easy to the
point of being instinctive.

## Adaptive Delivery

Every course is developed with and understanding of the ways people learn, and
delivered with empathy for the people learning. If background knowledge is
missing for some or all of the participants, we have the experience to fill in
those gaps with ad-hoc explanations to bring everyone up to speed.

We want every ten minutes of training to deliver useful teaching, so we avoid
long build-ups to "big reveals", so learning progresses at a steady rate with
few opportunities to lose a long thread of reasoning along the way. This way,
if we need to adapt the content or pace of delivery and cut material from the
end, we know the participants will still be getting everything out of the time
available.

## Courses

In 2023, we are offering four courses on Scala 3.

### Advanced Type Mechanics for Scala 3

Our first, and most established course, is a two-day circumnavigation of the
world of Scala's types, establishing a foundational understanding of the type
system and everything it represents. Upon this solid basis, _Advanced Type
Mechanics_ explores the algebra of types, and how to reason about them, every
step of the way relating the theory back to its practical applications with
lots of examples.

Since its introduction as a course on the Scala 2 type system, Advanced Type
Mechanics has evolved to 

### Next Generation Scala

Scala 3 is establishing itself as a dependable successor to Scala 2, and new
development in the Scala world is now focussed on the latest version. While
Scala 2 will carry on in production for many years, Scala's bright future lies
with Scala 3.

_Next Generation Scala_ is a 16-hour course for existing Scala developers, and presents both how and why 

### Principled Metaprogramming with Scala 3

Scala 3 offers a revolution in metaprogramming, building upon many ideas
introduced with macros in Scala 2, but redesigned with vastly improved static
safety.

This course explores the concepts involved in metaprogramming in Scala 3, alongside developing the skills needed to master it.


_Principled Metaprogramming_ recognizes that two days is insufficient to fully explore everything Scala offers the world of metaprogramming,

### Captivating Correctness with Scala 3

Scala 3.3 introduces Capture Checking as a dramatic enhancement to Scala's type
system, bringing a new dimension of rigor to the software we write. But it is
quite a departure from familiar Scala, and to fully appreciate it we need a
shift in how we think about code.

This day-long course explains the new opportunities capture checking offers to software developers, and works through a variety of examples to turn them into reality.

Interspersed throughout the core concepts of capture checking are practice exercises to develop the techniques needed to use them. These include 

- Capture set subtype relations
- Inferring captures
- Understanding avoidance
- Capabilities
- Capture set associativity
- Dependent function types

### Typesafe Web Development with Scala One

### Typesafe CLI Development with Scala One

